The Joe Rogan.
Experience. I heard that if you can get an inland sea salt,
it's better because it's not like a,
it doesn't have potential as many potential toxins that you're gonna find like
oceans.
Yeah. Along those lines. Yeah. That's what the,
the idea about Himalayan sea salt is right.
Because it's no real sea in the Himalayas. Right.
I mean, what is it called? Himalayan sea salt.
Or am I just making that up or is it Himalayan salt? I think it's sea.
Salt, right? Yeah. The pink Himalayan sea salt, right? Yeah.
But how was it? Sea salt. Explain that. How does that work?
Was it an older sea?
I wonder what it is. And it's similar. It's just like these big salt. Oh, it is.
Okay. Oh, it's just Himalayan salt. No, they're both comes up. Oh yeah.
I think I've heard it.
Like an old seed. That's no longer there.
And they just have the big salt deposits.
Right?
Like that's what a lot of Montana is the great Western in inland
sea. No, like millions of years ago. Like they find seashells in Montana.
Yeah. It was just bonkers.
Crazy. Uh, I was,
I was in a Utah earlier in the year and I can't remember where we were just out
of salt lake. And apparently that used to be on underwater too. And like,
they'll find like shark teeth and stuff like that around there. Like,
and it's just, you're up on this like trail and they're like,
there's no water in sight.
Think about that next time you see some that spent $10 million on a house on the
beach makes you think that's going to stay there, man. Hey, pay for that.
Eventually that is not going to be here.
Something's going to be different in the future. It's always been that way.
Like there's no permanent like place where the water is, where the water isn't.
Yeah.
Yeah. It is funny how we think of that though, where it's like,
we see the map now and we're like, oh, okay. This is just how it is. And yeah.
Maybe not. We'll look at Pangea you know,
things change pretty radically. What's up, Jamie?
I don't know the accuracy of this, but I just found this. Okay.
Himalayan sea salt is a gourmet salt with a slightly misleading name.
It doesn't come from the Himalayan mountains. Oh Jesus.
And it doesn't come from a sea. These, however, it's definitely a Seesaw.
So it's not a total misnomer. Himalayan salt.
Ashley refers to exclusively to Pakistani rock salt.
That used to be sea salt, hundreds of millions of years ago.
So why don't we call it Pakistan? If I was Pakistani, I'd be best.
Some mother are stealing our shine. You forget Jesus. You gay people.
No dude. That's what he said.
That's exactly what he's sending out of that again.
Pause for a second. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest.
I did a little bit. I was like, wait. No,
because he likes it up with what's wrong with you, America.
What's wrong with you? People is the problem. Here's the problem. He said,
forget pretty clear. That's what me.
You forget you forget Jesus.
Barely believing gay Jesus. Is that really what he said? Yeah.
Let's play that again bro. Cut it off JV.
Wow. What happened to.
Oh God. that. The bachelors of basketball.
Okay. Yep. You forget the USA. You forget, you forget the best in the world.
Forget. Go ahead.
The wrong. What happened to you? What happened to
you? Golf shoes? No.
For gay Jesus people maybe, but maybe not forget. Jesus.
It's like what happened? Do you not forget Jesus? There wasn't like,
there was some gay thing that was going on and he was commenting on it. I know,
but he's, he's so bad at English so bad. It easily could be.
Don't forget. Jesus is a golfer. Jesus. Don't forget. Jesus.
The only problem is he goes, what's wrong with you, USA. What's wrong with you?
You forget the number one. Jesus. What's wrong with you? Go back,
go back. Don't don't forget. Don't forget. Don't forget Jesus.
But he says don't forget right? One more time. Cause it doesn't make sense.
So breaking this down, first of all, pause for a second. You've got to remember.
He just got hit in the head a gang of times, right? I mean, what fight was this?
Do we remember? And look, he's got John three 16 or three 18 on a,
on a bandana around his head. He's got a Bible quote on his door for Jesus.
Not for gay. Jesus people go for Jesus. Not forget Jesus,
not you forget you forget Jesus it's it doesn't make sense.
It doesn't make sense, period, for him to say not for gay Jesus.
That didn't make sense because no, no, no. There's no rumors and saying,
don't forget to just start a rumor about Jesus being gay magic.
We were the first ones after all these years, this is what I heard about Jesus.
And then it becomes like everybody's talking about it.
Like you'll always tell there was a scroll. Usually with gay shot,
broke it down. Shut shop down. Jesus was getting, of course he loves everybody.
Let's look at two randomized controlled trials. Two,
these are not observational studies. Um, the,
the first found that increasing red meat consumption by replacing
carbohydrates in the diet of individuals without anemia actually reduced markers
of inflammation.
Sorry, we're just replacing what? Sorry, carbohydrates.
I'm sorry. So Jamie, if you want to pull this, uh, I mean,
these are all on the website, kresser.co/ game-changers,
but that's that study is called increased lean red meat intake does not elevate
markers of oxidative stress and inflammation in humans.
I believe it started to exist.
I mean that doesn't, so these are RCTs randomized.
So-so they're actually controlling it instead of just looking at observational
data, which is subject to healthy user bias. Um,
these are two RCTs, so that's uh, that's one study.
And then there's another one.
Another RCT in women with anemia inflammation,
markers on a diet high in red meat or not different from those on a diet high
in oily fish. And then there are also numerous studies of paleo diets,
which contain meat and other types of animal protein and show that they decrease
markers of inflammation,
including CRP there's randomized control trials showing reductions in
interleukin six and also in tumor necrosis factor alpha,
uh, in these diets. So all of this suggests it's not the meat,
it's what you eat with the meat. That makes the difference.
So we have studies of chlorophyll, eating chlorophyll, rich green vegetables,
uh, decreases the formation of in nitroso compounds with meat.
We have lots of studies showing that when you eat plants along
with the meat,
then you don't see the effects that you might see if you're just eating
crap standard American diet, okay.
Sorry. Off sex. Like S some, uh, so if an animal foods creates oxidative stress,
you have it with the plant foods and that would have the antioxidants and that
would offset it. Is that basically.
It's a little more complex.
Yeah. I think it is more complicated than that.
But as I said last time, and as I, as I've always argued,
I'm not a proponent of current, the carnivore diet.
I'm not a low carb guy. I'm not a keto guy.
I'm my fundamental argument is just that the optimal human diet
contains both plant and animal foods.
And this focus on individual food components or
macronutrients like protein or fat or carbohydrate,
we've gotten too much. It's called nutritionism.
It's just focusing on these individual elements and ignoring the overall pattern
of diet quality, which is the most important thing.
And that's what a lot of the more recent studies are showing.
When you look at the diet pattern, the diet quality on its aunt, you know,
overall,
that's what actually makes a difference in terms of health and lifespan,
not how much of this fat, how much of that fat,
whether there's red meat or white meat or fish or whatever, it's the pattern.
So we talk about like some conspiracy theories or something I've seen him kill
himself. I don't think he did. Nope. I think he might not have maybe,
maybe the odds that he did. If you had a bet. If I was in Vegas,
I want to give you odds. Like, Hey,
the odds he did come on that 1,000 bucks, 10%,
10% is where I, where I've got it. I don't, I don't want to say it's like zero,
but I think it's like 10%. I think it's low.
So would you plunk down a hundred bucks on 10 to one odds that,
that he did kill himself? No.
Yeah, probably. Yeah. You'd want 10.
You'd want more than 10 to one that he did kill himself.
I think there's only a 10% chance he killed them.
So them with these numbers here. I'm making, I don't know how you're however,
you're conf converting it to odds. It's falling apart in my head. Sorry.
I get it. It doesn't seem going no way though.
It doesn't seem likely. No.
I'm crazy.
That you could still do that. Did.
You see the Ford?
Absolutely. Suicide guard say they're scapegoats for a broken system.
Well, that's a defense. The defense is just, we were incompetent.
Not we killed him.
Dude. Who knows? That's.
Some weird going on.
Right behind the scenes, man.
What's going on behind the scenes that somebody could sneak somebody in to kill
somebody. If that's what happened, what's going on.
Side person. They don't have, they don't have to sneak somebody in that.
Person's already inside. The cameras are off, bro. That's.
Crazy. Cameras were off. Cameras.
Were off. Oops, sorry. Yeah, the cameras come on, bro.
I have cameras at my house. They're never off.
When the cameras are off too. I've heard, repeated a few times,
but not more recently that there, uh,
there was screaming from itself that someone heard screaming.
That's not stop being repeated now. So.
Bro, we live in a crazy world. Yeah. That's dark. Um,
I don't know. Hi. You're way.
It's just,
that's probably the biggest public conspiracy theory that
most people believe in.
Do you think most people believe it was a, it was a hit.
I would say most people when you get there, did,
do you feel like everything's right.
Like when you finally got to your place and you finally started when you walked
60 miles out there and started living,
did you finally feel like I'm in my spot? This is where I'm supposed to be.
Oh yeah. Like you knew.
I had literally been planning to do exactly that in the Brooks range for
seven years. Like that's what I was doing every day was preparing to do that.
Wow. But what was it about it that was so compelling?
Like why was that a thing that you were so drawn to?
Because when I was living in the woods before that,
when I was in the TP in Vermont, every single day,
I'd wake up with a smile on my face. I'd just be excited. What was going on?
Get up, look out, see the fog coming up off the water on the lake,
you know? Oh wow. There's something over there. There's a loon, whatever it is.
There's um,
I was just excited about what was going on out there and I just felt really
connected to it.
And there are a lot of really positive aspects to being out in the woods.
I mean just the physical part. Like I like to stay in shape.
I like to be active and you can't help, but be active out there. You can't help,
but stay in shape. Um, I like the diet. I mean,
once I started eating animals, I killed myself and food that I collected myself,
you know, plant food too. It was, um,
that was the best food I ever ate in my life.
When I ate that first moose I killed. I mean,
I never had anything better.
Just a crazy way to live, man.
It's interesting because most people would tell you, Hey, you gotta get a job.
You gotta, you gotta be a normal person. You can't just go out there and live.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, and that's what I told him. I said,
I'm going to make a career out of this now.
I didn't know exactly how it was going to play out. Um,
but I was always confident that it was a valuable thing to do and that it would
not only benefit me,
but in the long run that I would be able to share this with people and that it
would pay off. And it did. It just took time.